docs: contributing updates (#41836)
grafana/grafana: contribute/documentation/README.md

# Contribute to our documentation

We provide these guidelines to help our contributors make additions or corrections to our documentation.

## Welcome

Welcome. We're glad you're here to help make our technical documentation even better. We develop content that leads our users to success using Grafana products. Technical accuracy is our primary consideration, and we value the use of inclusive language. We regard your feedback as a gift - thanks for reading through these guidelines.

### Intended audience

We write these guidelines for contributors who are interested in improving our technical content.

## Understanding the structure of Grafana documentation

All Grafana Enterprise and OSS documentation is located in the [Grafana open source project](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) GitHub repository: https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/main/docs/sources.

- The **sources** directory organizes content by topic areas, for example **administration** and **alerting**.
- Topic directories include an `_index.md` file, which provides an overview of the topic, and optionally includes subtopics that provide more detail.

> The `_index.md` file is required.

> ### Writing in markdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Writing in Markdown
```

Reviewer: Change markdown to Markdown throughout.

#### Understanding topic types

Technical content is divided into three topic types: concept, task, and reference.

- **Concept**: A concept topic explains _what_ a feature (or idea) is, and why it is important.
- **Task**: A task topic explains _how_ to complete an end user procedure in the system. Task topics contain steps.
- **Reference** A reference topic contains lookup information that a user might consult when they complete a task. Documenting a list of values with descriptions is a common form of reference topic.

**Example**

Suppose you are writing content for a site called _Doggie handbook_. You might organize your topics like this:

**Concepts**

- What a dog is
- Brief history of dogs
- Why you might want a dog
- Tasks dogs can be trained to do

**Tasks**

- Feed the dog
- Groom the dog
- Train the dog

**References**

- List of dog equipment you will need
- Table of breeds that includes breed name, size range, short or long hair, and type of dog

#### Prepare your environment

> Before you begin writing, we recommend that you fork and clone the Grafana repository so that you can use a text editor locally to create branches, commit your changes, and create a PR.

Reviewer 2: fork and clone, or do we just want folks to clone?

Reviewer: @achatterjee-grafana, do folks need to fork from Grafana to make a change rather than just clone?

Reviewer 3: External users will fork, not clone the repo.

1. [Commit](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit) your changes.

1. [Push](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-push) your changes to Github.

1. [Create a PR](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) in Github.

The docs build system automatically conducts a series of tests to ensure that the content doesn't conflict with other content in the docs repository.

### Understanding the PR review and approval workflow

When a PR is added to the repo with a label associated with `docs`, it will be reviewed by a member of the technical writing team. Depending on the size of the PR and the priority of other work, the PR will either be immediately reviewed and merged (minor fixes typically follow this pattern) or the PR will be triaged and placed in the backlog of work or moved into further development.

## Join our community

For general discussions on documentation, you’re welcome to join the `#docs` channel on our [public Grafana Slack](http://slack.raintank.io) team.

## Reference: Top five writing tips

> While we can't provide a comprehensive style guide to this document, we thought providing a few writing tips to help the writing process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While we don't provide a comprehensive style guide in this document, here's a few writing tips to help the writing process.
```
